[Music]
the Namib Desert one of the most exposed
places on earth
[Music]
as the Sun climbs high everybody takes
cover from the extreme heat everybody
except the hot rod and as others take
refuge their day is just beginning
cleaning out the nest the sand can reach
a scorching 70 centigrade the ants long
legs raise their bodies above the
surface where it's 10 degrees cooler
but if they stand still they will fry
they must keep moving or risk the same
fate as their quarry the creatures that
have collapsed from heatstroke too
deeply buried but a good place to cool
off foraging decisions must be fast to
be perfect back to the nest before they
also die but they strayed into a
minefield
[Music]
each of these strange cone-shaped pits
is a death trap with a brutal predator
at its center here lie antlion larva
tiny ambush predators with venom filled
pincers
some ants managed to escape but the
antlion has other tricks flinging sand
into the air it creates an avalanche
in this cone of death the walls are so
angled that the sand slips beneath the
ants feet as boulders rain from the sky
escape seems almost impossible
[Music]
whew
you